<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <title>The Dark Forest</title>
    <meta content="urn:uuid:17b0aa6a-eb49-456e-99d7-68c762a2aaf1" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../../stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="../../page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<p class="sp" id="ch2"> </p>
<p class="ct"><a href="contents.xhtml#c_ch2" class="calibre2">Year 8, Crisis Era</a></p>
<p class="cst"><span class="epub-b">Distance of the Trisolaran Fleet from the Solar System: 4.20 light-years</span></p>
<p class="tni">Tyler had been jumpy lately. Despite the setbacks, the mosquito swarm plan eventually won PDC approval. Development of the space fighters began, but progress was slow due to a lack of advanced technologies. Humanity continued to improve on the technology of its stone age axes and clubs, inventing chemically propelled rockets. Tyler’s supplemental project, the study of Europa, Ceres, and various comets, was odd enough that some people suspected that he had come up with it purely to add a sense of mystery to the overly direct main plan. However, since it could be incorporated into the mainstream defense program, he was allowed to start working on that as well.</p>
<p class="tx">So Tyler had to wait. He went home and, for the first time in his five years as a Wallfacer, led the life of a normal person.</p>
<p class="tx">The Wallfacers were subject to increasing scrutiny from the community. Whether they had asked for the role or not, they had been set up in the eyes of the masses as messiah figures. Accordingly, a Wallfacer cult sprang up. No matter how many explanations the UN and PDC issued, legends of their supernatural abilities circulated widely and grew increasingly fanciful. In science fiction movies, they were shown as superheroes, and, in the eyes of many, they were the sole hope for humanity. This gave the Wallfacers an enormous amount of popular and political capital that guaranteed things would go smoothly when they tapped huge amounts of resources.</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji was the exception. He remained in seclusion, never showing his face. No one knew where he was or what he was doing.</p>
<p class="tx">One day, Tyler had a visitor. Like the other Wallfacers, his home was under heavy guard, and all visitors had to pass stringent background checks. But when he first saw the visitor in the living room, he knew that the man would pass through easily, because it was obvious at a glance that he posed no threat to anyone. On this hot day he wore a wrinkled suit, a similarly wrinkled tie, and, more annoyingly, the sort of bowler hat no one wore anymore. He evidently wanted to present a more formal appearance for his visit, since he had probably never attended a formal occasion before. Pale and emaciated, he looked malnourished. His glasses sat heavily on his skinny, pale face, his neck hardly seemed able to support the weight of his head, and his suit looked practically empty, as if it was hanging on a rack. As a politician, Tyler saw at a glance that he belonged to one of those mean social classes whose poverty was more spiritual than material, like Gogol’s petty bureaucrats who, despite their lowly social station, still worry about preserving that status and spend their whole lives engaged in uncreative, exhausting random tasks that they carry out exactingly. In everything they do, they fear making mistakes; with everyone they meet, they fear causing displeasure; and they dare not take the slightest glance through the glass ceiling to a higher plane of society. Tyler detested those people. They were utterly dispensable, and when he thought about how they made up the majority of the world that he wanted to save, it left a bad taste in his mouth.</p>
<p class="tx">The man walked gingerly through the living room door, but did not dare venture further. He seemed afraid of marking the carpet with the dirty soles of his shoes. He took off his hat and looked at the master of the house through his thick glasses as he bowed repeatedly. Tyler made up his mind to send him off as soon as he spoke his first sentence, for even if what the man had to say was important to him, to Tyler it was meaningless.</p>
<p class="tx">In a frail voice, the pitiful man uttered his first sentence. It struck Tyler like a bolt of lightning and so dazed him that he practically sat down on the ground. Every word was like a thunderclap.</p>
<p class="tx">“Wallfacer Frederick Tyler, I am your Wallbreaker.”</p>
<p class="sb-std">*   *   *</p>
<p class="tni">“Who would have thought we’d one day be facing a battle map like this,” Chang Weisi exclaimed as he looked at a one-to-one-trillion-scale chart of the Solar System displayed on a monitor large enough to be a movie screen. It was almost entirely dark, except for the tiny spot of yellow in the center that was the sun. The chart radius reached the middle of the Kuiper Belt. When it was displayed in its entirety, it was like looking down on the Solar System from a distance of fifty AU above the ecliptic plane. The chart accurately marked the orbits of planets and satellites, as well as the conditions of known asteroids, and it could display a precise sectional layout of the Solar System for any point in the next millennium. Now that positional markings for celestial bodies had been turned off, the chart display was bright enough that you could make out Jupiter if you looked closely enough. It was just an indistinct, tiny bright spot, but from this distance the other seven major planets were invisible.</p>
<p class="tx">“Yes, we are facing major changes,” Zhang Beihai said. The military had just completed a meeting to assess its first space map, and now only the two of them remained in the spacious war room.</p>
<p class="tx">“Commander, I wonder if you noticed the eyes of our comrades when they saw this map,” he said.</p>
<p class="tx">“Of course I noticed. It’s understandable. They would have imagined a space map to be like what you find in popular science books. A couple of colored billiard balls rotating around a fireball. It’s only when they’re faced with one drawn to an accurate scale that they come to an appreciation of the vastness of the Solar System. And, whether they’re air force or navy, the furthest their air and water craft can go doesn’t even amount to one pixel on the big screen.”</p>
<p class="tx">“It seems that looking at the battlefield of the future did not inspire a stitch of confidence or passion for battle in our comrades.”</p>
<p class="tx">“And now we’re back to defeatism.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Commander, I don’t want to talk about the reality of defeatism today. That’s a subject for a formal meeting. What I’d like to discuss is … well…” He faltered, and smiled, a rare thing for someone who was usually so outspoken.</p>
<p class="tx">Chang Weisi turned away from the map and smiled back at him. “Seems you’ve got something highly unorthodox to say.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Yes. Or something unprecedented, at least. I’m making a recommendation.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Proceed. Get right down to the topic. Of course, you don’t need encouragement for that.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Yes, Commander. Over the past five years, little progress has been made in basic planetary defense and space travel research. The preliminary technology in those two programs—controlled nuclear fusion and the space elevator—are still at square one, with no hope in sight, and there are all kinds of problems with higher-thrust chemical rockets. If things continue in this vein, then I fear a space fleet, even at the low-tech level, will remain science fiction forever.”</p>
<p class="tx">“You chose high-tech, Comrade Beihai. You ought to be well aware of the rules of scientific research.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Of course I’m aware of them. Research is a process of leaping forward, and qualitative change is only produced by long-term quantitative accumulation. Breakthroughs in theory and technology are mostly achieved in concentrated bursts.… Still, Commander, how many people understand the problem like I do? It’s very likely that in ten or twenty or fifty years, or even a century, we still won’t have any major breakthroughs in any scientific or technical field, and at that point, how far will defeatist thinking have developed? What spiritual and mental state will have taken hold in the space force? Commander, am I really taking this too far?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Beihai, what I most admire about you is that you always keep the long term in mind as you work. It’s a rare thing among political cadres in this military. Please go on.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Well, I can only speak from the scope of my own work. Working under the above assumptions, what sort of difficulties and pressures will be faced by our future comrades engaged in political and ideological work in the space force?”</p>
<p class="tx">“A grimmer question is, how many ideologically qualified political cadres will be left in the forces?” added Chang Weisi. “To contain defeatism, we first need to have a firm faith in victory ourselves. But this is certain to be more difficult in your hypothetical future.”</p>
<p class="tx">“That’s where my worry lies, Commander. When that time comes, political work in the space force won’t be up to the task.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Your recommendation?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Send reinforcements!”</p>
<p class="tx">Chang Weisi looked at Zhang Beihai for a few seconds, then turned back to the big screen. He moved the cursor and enlarged the sun until their epaulets reflected the sunlight.</p>
<p class="tx">“Commander, what I mean is…”</p>
<p class="tx">He raised a hand. “I know what you mean.” Then he pulled back until the entire map was displayed, plunging the war room back into gloom, and then brought the sun forward again … and again and again as he thought, until at last he said, “Has it ever occurred to you that if political and ideological work in the space force is a complex and difficult task right now, it will considerably weaken today’s work to hibernate the most outstanding political officers and send them to the future?”</p>
<p class="tx">“I realize that, Commander. I’m just voicing a personal suggestion. Big-picture thinking is, of course, up to my superiors.”</p>
<p class="tx">Chang Weisi stood up and turned on the lights, illuminating the war room. “No, Comrade Beihai, this is a job for you now. Drop everything else. Starting tomorrow, you will focus on the Space Force Political Department, do some research into the other branches, and draft a preliminary report for the Central Military Commission as soon as possible.”</p>
<p class="sb-std">*   *   *</p>
<p class="tni">The sun was setting behind the mountains when Tyler arrived. Exiting the car, he faced a vision of paradise: the softest light of the day shining on the snow peaks, the lake, and the forest, and Luo Ji and his family enjoying the otherworldly evening in the grass on the lakeshore. What first caught his eye was the mother, so young-looking, like an older sister to the one-year-old child. From a distance it was hard to make her out, but as he drew closer, his attention shifted to the child. If he hadn’t seen it with his own eyes, he wouldn’t have believed that such an adorable little being actually existed. Like a stem cell of beauty, the embryonic state of all that is beautiful. Mother and child were drawing on a large sheet of white paper as Luo Ji stood off to one side watching with interest as he had in the Louvre, gazing from a distance at his beloved, now a mother. Moving closer still, Tyler saw in his eyes an infinite bliss, a happiness that seemed to permeate everything between mountain and lake in this Garden of Eden.… </p>
<p class="tx">Having just arrived from the grim outside world made the scene before his eyes feel unreal. He had been married twice but was now single, and the joys of family had meant little to him in his pursuit of a man’s glory. Now, for the first time ever, he felt he had lived an empty life.</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji, captivated by his wife and child, only noticed Tyler when he had gotten quite close. Due to the psychological barriers erected by their common situation, there had been no personal contact between Wallfacers up to this point. But having spoken with him on the phone, Luo Ji showed no surprise at Tyler’s arrival, and met him with polite warmth.</p>
<p class="tx">“Madam, please excuse the interruption,” Tyler said with a slight bow to Zhuang Yan, who had come over with the child.</p>
<p class="tx">“Welcome, Mr. Tyler. We seldom have guests, so we are pleased that you could come.” Her English was strained, but her voice retained a childlike softness and she still had that cool spring of a smile, which stroked his weary soul like an angel’s hands. “This is our daughter, Xia Xia.”</p>
<p class="tx">He wanted to hug the child, but was afraid of losing control of his feelings, so he simply said, “Seeing you two angels is worth the trip.”</p>
<p class="tx">“We’ll let you talk. I’ll go and prepare dinner,” she said as she smiled at the two men.</p>
<p class="tx">“No, that’s not necessary. I just want to have a brief chat with Dr. Luo. I won’t take up too much time.”</p>
<p class="tx">Zhuang Yan warmly insisted that he stay for dinner, then left with the child.</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji motioned for Tyler to sit on a white chair in the grass. When he sat down, his whole body went limp, as if his tendons had been removed. He was a traveler who had at last reached his destination after a long voyage. “Doctor, it seems like you’ve been lost to the world for the past two years,” Tyler said.</p>
<p class="tx">“Yes.” Luo Ji remained standing. He swept a hand about him. “This is my everything.”</p>
<p class="tx">“You are truly a smart man, and at least from one perspective, a more responsible man than me.”</p>
<p class="tx">“What do you mean by that?” Luo Ji asked, with a puzzled smile.</p>
<p class="tx">“At least you haven’t wasted resources.… So she doesn’t watch TV either? I mean, your angel.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Her? I don’t know. She’s always with Xia Xia these days, so I don’t think she watches much.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Then you really don’t know what’s happened out there over the past few days?”</p>
<p class="tx">“What happened? You don’t look well. Are you tired? What can I get you to drink?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Anything,” Tyler said, watching the last golden rays of the setting sun on the lake dazedly. “Four days ago, my Wallbreaker appeared.”</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji stopped pouring the wine, and after a moment’s silence, said, “So soon?”</p>
<p class="tx">Tyler nodded heavily. “That’s the first thing I said to him, too.”</p>
<p class="sb-std">*   *   *</p>
<p class="tni">“So soon?” Tyler said to the Wallbreaker. He tried to keep his voice calm but it ended up sounding feeble.</p>
<p class="tx">“I’d liked to have come sooner, but I thought I’d collect more comprehensive evidence, so I’m late. I am sorry,” the Wallbreaker said. He stood behind Tyler like a servant and spoke slowly, with a servant’s humility. His final sentence even contained a meticulousness and thoughtfulness, the understanding that an executioner shows to his victim.</p>
<p class="tx">Then a suffocating silence took hold. At last Tyler screwed up the courage to look at the Wallbreaker, who then asked respectfully, “Sir, shall I go on?”</p>
<p class="tx">Tyler nodded but averted his gaze. He sat down on the sofa and did his best to calm down.</p>
<p class="tx">“Thank you, sir.” The Wallbreaker bowed again, his hat still in hand. “First, I’ll briefly describe the plan you’ve shown to the outside world: Using a fleet of nimble space fighters carrying hundred-megaton-class superbombs, your fighters will assist Earth’s fleet by executing a suicide strike on the Trisolaris Fleet. Perhaps I’ve oversimplified, but that’s basically it, right?”</p>
<p class="tx">“There’s no point in discussing this with you,” Tyler said. He had been considering whether to terminate the conversation. The moment the Wallbreaker revealed himself, Tyler’s intuition as a politician and strategist informed him that the other man was the victor, but at this point he would be lucky if his mind had not been laid entirely bare.</p>
<p class="tx">“If that’s the case, sir, then I don’t have to go on, and you can arrest me. But you surely must know that regardless of what happens, your true strategy, and all of the evidence used to prove my hypothesis, will make the news across the world tomorrow, or maybe even tonight. At the cost of the rest of my life I stand before you today, and I hope that you will value my sacrifice.”</p>
<p class="tx">“You may continue,” Tyler said with a wave of his hand.</p>
<p class="tx">“Thank you, sir. I am truly honored, and I will not use up too much time.” The Wallbreaker bowed again. A humble respect so rarely seen among modern people seemed to be in his blood, able to manifest at any time, like a noose gradually tightening around Tyler’s neck. “Then, sir, was my rendition of your strategy just now correct?”</p>
<p class="tx">“It was.”</p>
<p class="tx">“It was not,” the Wallbreaker said. “Sir, pardon my saying it, but it was not correct.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Why?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Given humanity’s technological capabilities, the most powerful weapons we are likely to possess in the future are super hydrogen bombs. In a space-battle environment, the bombs must be detonated in direct contact with their target to be capable of destroying enemy ships. Space fighters are nimble and can be deployed in large numbers, so sending the fighter fleet in for swarmlike suicide strikes is undoubtedly the best option. Your plan is eminently reasonable. All of your behavior, including trips to Japan, China, and even the mountains of Afghanistan in search of space kamikaze pilots with a spirit of self-sacrifice, and your plan to put the mosquito fleet under your direct control once that search failed, was also entirely reasonable.”</p>
<p class="tx">“What’s wrong with that?” Tyler asked, sitting up on the sofa.</p>
<p class="tx">“Nothing’s wrong with that. But that’s just the strategy you presented to the outside.” The Wallbreaker bent down, drew near to Tyler’s ear, and continued speaking in a soft voice. “Your true strategy had small alterations. For quite a long time, you had me stumped. It was agonizing for me, and I nearly gave up.”</p>
<p class="tx">Tyler realized that he had a death grip on a sofa handle, and tried to relax.</p>
<p class="tx">“But then you gave me the key to unlock the whole puzzle. It was such a good fit that for a moment I doubted my good fortune. You know what I’m referring to: Your study of several bodies in the solar system, Europa, Ceres, and the comets. What do they have in common? Water. They all possess water, and in large quantities! On their own, Europa and Ceres have more water than in all of the oceans on Earth.… </p>
<p class="tx">“Rabies sufferers fear the water and can go into spasms at the mere mention of the word. I imagine you have similar feelings right now.”</p>
<p class="tx">The Wallbreaker drew close to Tyler and spoke directly into his ear. His breath was not the least bit warm, but felt like a ghostly wind flavored with the grave. “Water,” he whispered, as if talking in his sleep. “Water…”</p>
<p class="tx">Tyler remained silent, his face like a statue’s.</p>
<p class="tx">“Is there any need for me to continue?” the Wallbreaker asked, standing up.</p>
<p class="tx">“No,” Tyler said in a low voice.</p>
<p class="tx">“But I’ll continue anyway,” the Wallbreaker said, almost gleefully. “I’ll leave historians with a complete record, even if history won’t endure for much longer. And an explanation for the Lord as well, of course. Not everyone has the keen intellect of the two of us, able to grasp the whole from the merest part. Particularly the Lord, who may not even understand a complete explanation.” He raised up a hand, as if acknowledge the Trisolaran listeners, and laughed. “Forgive me.”</p>
<p class="tx">Tyler’s features slackened, and then his bones seemed to melt. He slumped into the sofa. He was finished, and his spirit no longer inhabited his body.</p>
<p class="tx">“Now then. Setting aside the water, let’s talk about the mosquito swarm. Its first attack target will not be the Trisolaran invaders, but Earth’s own space force. This hypothesis is a bit of a reach based on the barest of signs, but I maintain that it is correct. You went around the world seeking to establish a kamikaze force for humanity, but your efforts failed. You anticipated this, but from this failure you were able to obtain two things you desired. One was total despair in humanity—this, you have achieved fully. The second I’ll discuss in a moment.”</p>
<p class="tx">The blade fell.</p>
<p class="tx">“After traveling the world you became utterly disillusioned with modern humanity’s dedication. You also became convinced that Earth’s space force did not stand a chance of defeating Trisolaris via standard combat. You therefore hatched a strategy even more extreme. In my opinion, this is a very faint hope, and an immense risk. Nevertheless, the principles of the Wallfacer Project dictate that in this war, the safest bet is to take a risk.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Of course, this was only the beginning. Your betrayal of humanity would be a long process, but you had time on your side. In the following months and years, you were prepared to engineer events that would add to the wall you erected between yourself and the human race. Your despair would gradually grow and your sorrow intensify, and you would leave the human world further and further behind, growing closer and closer to the ETO and Trisolaris. In fact, you took your first steps on this road when you urged mercy for the ETO at the PDC hearing not long ago. That wasn’t just for show, though. You truly need them to endure. You need members of the ETO to pilot your space fighters in the Doomsday Battle. It is a matter of time and patience, but you would succeed, because the ETO also needs you. It needs your assistance, and the resources you possess. It wouldn’t be difficult to turn over the mosquito fleet to the ETO, so long as it was kept a secret from the outside world. And if it were discovered, you could claim that it was all part of the plan.”</p>
<p class="tx">Tyler did not seem to be listening to the Wallbreaker. He sat on his sofa with his eyes half-closed, looking fatigued, as if he had already given up and was beginning to relax.</p>
<p class="tx">“Very well. Let’s talk about the water now. In the Doomsday Battle, the ETO-controlled mosquito fleet would likely launch a sneak attack on Earth’s fleet and then flee to the Lord’s fleet. Because they had just demonstrated their disloyalty to earth, Trisolaris might be willing to let them join the fleet, but the Lord would not be so fast to accept the turncoat army. A sufficiently meaningful gift would be required to win them over. What would the Lord need that the Solar System possesses? Water. On their four-century voyage, most of the water in the Trisolaran Fleet would be used up. As they approached the Solar System, dehydrated Trisolarans on board would need to be rehydrated. Since the water used for this would become part of their bodies, clean water would certainly be preferred to the stale water that had been recycled innumerable times on the ship. The mosquito fleet would offer the Lord an iceberg formed out of huge quantities of water obtained from Europa, Ceres, and the comets. I’m not certain of the specifics—I expect you don’t know right now either—but let’s say tens of thousands of tons.</p>
<p class="tx">“This giant chunk of ice would be propelled by the mosquito group. The mosquito fleet would likely draw very close to the Lord’s fleet when presenting the gift, at which point the second consequence of the failure of your attempt to build a kamikaze force would be put to use. That failure prompted your very logical request for independent control of the entire mosquito fleet. When Earth’s fleet draws close to the Lord’s fleet, you would take over control of the fighters from the ETO pilots and switch them to drone mode, ordering the fighters to strike their chosen targets. The superbombs would be detonated at point-blank range, annihilating all of the Lord’s ships.</p>
<p class="tx">The Wallbreaker straightened up and, leaving Tyler’s side, approached the floor-to-ceiling windows that overlooked the garden. The hellish wind he had blown into Tyler’s ear dissipated, but not before the chill had penetrated his body.</p>
<p class="tx">“An outstanding plan. That’s not a lie. But certain oversights are inexplicable. Why were you so eager to pursue the study of water-bearing heavenly bodies? The technology to extract and transport water in quantity does not exist right now, and engineering-side R&amp;D could take years or even decades. Even if you felt you had to start right away, why not toss in a few targets that don’t contain water—the moons of Mars, for instance? If you had done so, although it wouldn’t have prevented me from eventually exposing your plan, it would have vastly increased the difficulty. How could a great strategist such as yourself overlook such simple tricks? On the other hand, I do recognize the pressure you are under.”</p>
<p class="tx">The Wallbreaker placed a gentle hand on Tyler’s shoulder, and Tyler felt a flash of tenderness, as of an executioner for his victim. He was even a little moved.</p>
<p class="tx">“Don’t beat yourself up. You did well enough, really. I hope history remembers you.” The Wallbreaker removed his hand, a flush of restored energy on his formerly wan and sickly face. He stretched out his arms. “Well, Mr. Tyler, I’m done. Call your people.”</p>
<p class="tx">Tyler, his eyes still shut, said without energy, “You may leave.”</p>
<p class="tx">When the Wallbreaker opened the door, Tyler croaked out a final question: “If what you say is true, so what?”</p>
<p class="tx">The Wallbreaker turned back toward him. “So nothing. Mr. Tyler, regardless of whether or not I’ve broken your plan, the Lord does not care.”</p>
<p class="sb-std">*   *   *</p>
<p class="tni">Luo Ji was rendered speechless for a long while after hearing Tyler’s account.</p>
<p class="tx">When an ordinary person spoke with one of them, they would always be thinking, <span class="epub-i">He’s a Wallfacer, his words can’t be trusted,</span> and those suggestions would present a barrier to communication. But when two Wallfacers spoke with each other, the suggestions that existed in both minds cross-multiplied those communication barriers. Such an exchange, in fact, rendered anything either side said meaningless, so that communication itself lost all significance. This was why there had been no private interaction between Wallfacers.</p>
<p class="tx">“How do you evaluate the Wallbreaker’s analysis?” Luo Ji asked to break the silence, even though he knew there was no point to the question.</p>
<p class="tx">“He guessed right,” Tyler said.</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji wanted to say something, but what? What could be said? They were both Wallfacers.</p>
<p class="tx">“That was my true strategy,” Tyler went on. He evidently had a strong desire to speak and didn’t care whether or not his listener believed him. “Of course, it’s still in the preliminary stages. The technology alone is quite difficult, although I expected a gradual resolution to all of the theoretic and technical issues over the course of four centuries. But judging from the enemy’s attitude toward the plan, it wouldn’t make any difference. They don’t care, and that’s the height of contempt.”</p>
<p class="tx">“And that was…?” Luo Ji felt like a machine for meaningless dialogue.</p>
<p class="tx">“The day after the Wallbreaker’s visit, a complete analysis of my strategy was posted online. The material ran into the millions of words, most of it obtained through sophon monitoring, and it caused a sensation. The day before yesterday, the PDC called a hearing on the issue, at which it resolved the following: ‘Wallfacer Plans may not contain anything that poses a threat to human life.’ If my plan actually existed, then its execution would be a crime against humanity. It must be stopped, and its Wallfacer punished by law. Notice how they invoke crimes against humanity, a term that’s being thrown around more than ever these days? But the resolution concluded by saying, ‘According to the basic principles of the Wallfacer Project, the evidence available to the outside world may just be a part of the Wallfacer’s strategy of deception and cannot be used to prove that the Wallfacer has actually developed and is executing this plan.’ So I won’t be charged.”</p>
<p class="tx">“I’d thought as much,” Luo Ji said.</p>
<p class="tx">“But at the hearing, I declared that the Wallbreaker’s analysis was correct, and that my strategy was indeed the mosquito swarm. I asked to be tried in accordance with national and international law.”</p>
<p class="tx">“I can imagine their reaction.”</p>
<p class="tx">“The PDC’s rotating chair and all the permanent member representatives looked at me with that Wallfacer smile on their face, and the chair declared the meeting adjourned. Those bastards!”</p>
<p class="tx">“I know the feeling.”</p>
<p class="tx">“I had a total breakdown. I fled out of the hall and into the square outside, shouting, ‘I am Wallfacer Frederick Tyler! My Wallbreaker exposed my strategy! He was right! I’m going to attack the Earth fleet with the mosquito swarm! I’m anti-human! I’m a devil! Punish me and kill me!’”</p>
<p class="tx">“That was a meaningless act, Mr. Tyler.”</p>
<p class="tx">“What I hate the most is the expression people have when they look at me. A crowd of people surrounded me in the square, their eyes revealing the fantasies of children, the reverence of the middle-aged, and the concern of the elderly. All of their eyes said, ‘Look, he’s a Wallfacer. He’s at work, but he’s the only one in the world who knows what he’s doing. See what a great job he’s doing? He’s pretending so well. How will the enemy know what his real strategy is? That great, great, great strategy that only he knows and that will be the salvation of the world…’ Complete and utter crap! Those idiots!”</p>
<p class="tx">At last Luo Ji decided to remain silent, and merely smiled wordlessly at Tyler.</p>
<p class="tx">As Tyler stared at him, a thin smile wavered on his pale face and then developed into full-blown hysterical laughter. “Ha! You’re smiling the Wallfacer smile! A smile from one Wallfacer to another! You think I’m at work. You believe I’m acting the part, and you think I’ll save the world!” He cackled again. “How did we end up in such a hilarious situation?”</p>
<p class="tx">“This is a vicious cycle we’ll never be free of, Mr. Tyler,” Luo Ji said, and sighed softly.</p>
<p class="tx">Tyler’s laughter stopped abruptly. “Never be free? No, Dr. Luo, there’s a way out. There really is a way, and I’m here today to tell it to you.”</p>
<p class="tx">“You need a break. Rest here for a few days,” Luo Ji said.</p>
<p class="tx">Tyler nodded slowly. “Yeah, I need a break. We’re the only ones who understand each other’s pain, Doctor. That’s why I’ve come.” He looked up. The sun had set a while ago, and the Garden of Eden had grown indistinct in the twilight. “This is paradise. Can I go for a walk alone by the lake?”</p>
<p class="tx">“You may do whatever you like here. Take it easy, and I’ll call you to dinner in a while.”</p>
<p class="tx">Tyler walked down to the lake, leaving Luo Ji to sit down, sunken in heavy thoughts.</p>
<p class="tx">For five years, he had bathed in an ocean of happiness. The birth of his Xia Xia in particular had made him forget everything about the outside world. The love of his wife and child blended together and intoxicated his soul, and, in this gentle home isolated from the rest of the world, he had fallen deeper and deeper into an illusion: Perhaps the outside world really was something akin to a quantum state, and did not exist unless he observed it.</p>
<p class="tx">But it was a state that could no longer endure now that the abominable outside world had burst into his Garden of Eden to confuse and frighten him. His thoughts shifted to Tyler, whose last words still resounded in his ears. Was it really possible for Wallfacers to break free of the vicious cycle, to shatter the iron shackles of logic…?</p>
<p class="tx">He jerked to his senses and ran toward the lake. He wanted to shout, but was afraid of scaring Zhuang Yan and Xia Xia, so he just ran as fast as he could through the quiet twilight, the swish of his feet against the grass on the hillside the only sound. But into this rhythm a soft <span class="epub-i">crack</span> inserted itself.</p>
<p class="tx">The sound of a gunshot from the lake.</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji returned home late that evening after the child was sound asleep. Zhuang Yan asked softly, “Did Mr. Tyler leave?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Yes. He’s gone,” he said wearily.</p>
<p class="tx">“He seemed worse off than you.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Yes. That’s because he didn’t take an easy path.… Yan, have you watched TV recently?”</p>
<p class="tx">“No. I…” She paused, and Luo Ji knew what she was thinking. With the outside world growing more serious by the day, and the gap widening between life here and life outside, the difference made her uneasy. “Is our life really part of the Wallfacer plan?” she asked, looking at him with that same innocent face.</p>
<p class="tx">“Of course. What is there to doubt?”</p>
<p class="tx">“But can we truly be happy when all humanity is unhappy?”</p>
<p class="tx">“My love, your responsibility when all of humanity is unhappy is to make yourself happy. With Xia Xia, your happiness gains a point, and the Wallfacer plan gains a point toward its success.”</p>
<p class="tx">Zhuang Yan stared silently at him. The language of facial expressions she had envisioned in front of the <span class="epub-i">Mona Lisa</span> five years ago seemed to have been partially realized between her and Luo Ji. More and more, he could read her mind through her eyes, and what he read now was, <span class="epub-i">How can I believe that?</span></p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji pondered this for a long time, and finally said, “Yan, everything has an ending. The sun and the universe will die one day, so why should humanity believe that it ought to be immortal? Listen, this world is paranoid. Fighting a hopeless war is a fool’s errand, so look at the Trisolar Crisis from a different perspective and leave your cares behind. Not just the ones involving the crisis, but everything else from before that. Use the time that’s left to enjoy life. Four hundred years! Or, if we refuse the Doomsday Battle, then nearly five hundred. That’s a fair amount of time. Humanity used the same period to go from the Renaissance to the information age, and in the same space could create a carefree, comfortable life. Five idyllic centuries without needing to worry about the distant future, where the sole responsibility is to enjoy life. How wonderful.…”</p>
<p class="tx">He realized that he had spoken unwisely. Claiming that the happiness of her and the child were part of the plan added another layer of protection to her life by making her happiness into a responsibility. This was the only way to ensure that she maintained a balanced mind in the face of the cruel world. He could never resist her eternally innocent eyes, so he didn’t dare look at her when she questioned him. But now, because of the Tyler factor, he had involuntarily told the truth.</p>
<p class="tx">“When you say that, are you being a Wallfacer?” she asked.</p>
<p class="tx">“Yes, of course I am,” he said, to fix the situation.</p>
<p class="tx">But her eyes said, <span class="epub-i">You really did seem to believe that!</span></p>
<p class="dl"><span class="epub-b">UN Planetary Defense Council, Wallfacer Project Hearing #89</span></p>
<p class="tni">At the start of the hearing, the rotating chair spoke to strongly urge that Luo Ji be required to attend the next hearing, arguing that refusal to participate was not part of the Wallfacer plan because the PDC’s supervisory authority over the Wallfacers trumped the Wallfacers’ own strategic plans. The proposal was unanimously adopted by all permanent member representatives, and with the emergence of the first Wallbreaker and the suicide of Wallfacer Tyler in mind, the other two Wallfacers attending the meeting heard the unspoken implications of the chairman’s words.</p>
<p class="tx">Hines spoke first. His neuroscience-based plan was still in its infancy, but he described the equipment he was envisioning as a basis for further research. He called it the Resolving Imager. Based on computed tomography and nuclear magnetic resonance, it operated by scanning in all cross sections of the brain at once, which required cross sectional accuracy on the scale of the internal structure of brain cells and neurons. This would bring the number of simultaneous CT scans to several million, to be synthesized by computer into a digital model of the brain. Other technical requirements were even greater: The scan needed to be conducted at a rate of twenty-four frames per second to produce a dynamic synthetic model that could capture all brain activity at a neuron-level resolution, making it possible to precisely observe thought activity in the brain, or even replay all neural activity throughout the thinking process.</p>
<p class="tx">Then Rey Diaz described the progress of his plan. After five years of research, the digital star model for super-high-yield nuclear weapons had been completed and was now being thoroughly debugged.</p>
<p class="tx">Next, the PDC scientific advisory panel presented a report on its feasibility study of the two Wallfacers’ plans.</p>
<p class="tx">The advisory panel felt that although there were in theory no obstacles to Hines’s Resolving Imager, the technical difficulties far exceeded current conditions, and modern CT scanning was about as far from RI technology as black-and-white film was from modern high-definition cameras. Data processing presented the biggest technical hurdle to the RI device, because scanning and modeling an object the size of the human brain with neuron-level precision required power that was unavailable to modern computers.</p>
<p class="tx">The obstacle to Rey Diaz’s stellar bomb was the same: present computing power was insufficient. After inspecting the calculations required by the completed portion of the model, the panel’s expert group felt that the most powerful of today’s computers would take twenty years to model a hundredth of a second of the fusion process. Since the model would need to be run repeatedly in the course of research, practical application was an impossibility.</p>
<p class="tx">The panel’s chief computer scientist said, “Right now, computer technology based on traditional integrated circuits and Von Neumann architecture is nearing the limit of its technological development. Moore’s law is going to collapse. Of course, we can still squeeze out the last few drops of lemonade from these traditional electronic and technological lemons. In our opinion, even given the present deceleration in supercomputer progress, the computing power required by the two plans is still achievable. It just requires time. Optimistically, twenty to thirty years. Those goals, if they are reached, will represent the peak of human computing technology, and any further progress will be difficult. With frontier physics under sophon lockdown, the next-gen and quantum computers that we once dreamed of are now very unlikely to be realized.”</p>
<p class="tx">“We’ve reached the wall that the sophons have erected across our scientific road,” the chair said.</p>
<p class="tx">“Then there’s nothing that we can do for twenty years,” Hines said.</p>
<p class="tx">“Twenty years is the most optimistic estimate. As a scientist, you ought to know what cutting-edge research is like.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Then the only thing to do is hibernate and wait the arrival of capable computers,” Rey Diaz said.</p>
<p class="tx">“I’ve decided to hibernate, too,” Hines said.</p>
<p class="tx">“If that’s the case, then I will ask the two of you to greet my successor in twenty years,” the chair said with a smile.</p>
<p class="tx">The mood of the hearing relaxed. Now that the two Wallfacers had decided to enter hibernation, the hearing’s participants sighed with relief. The emergence of the first Wallbreaker and his Wallfacer’s suicide had dealt a heavy blow to the entire project. Tyler’s suicide in particular had been a foolish act. If he had lived, people would still be in doubt about whether the mosquito swarm had really been his plan. His death was tantamount to a final confirmation of the existence of the terrible plan. He had vaulted out of the vicious cycle at the cost of his life, prompting increasing murmurs of criticism of the Wallfacer Project among the international community. Public opinion demanded further restrictions on Wallfacer power, but the very nature of the Wallfacer Project meant that too many restrictions would make it difficult for the Wallfacers to conduct their strategic deceptions, rendering the entire project meaningless. The Wallfacer Project possessed a leadership structure that human society had never before seen, and it required time to adjust and adapt to it. It was clear that the hibernation of the two Wallfacers would provide a buffer period for that to take place.</p>
<p class="tx">A few days later, in a top-secret underground structure, Rey Diaz and Hines entered hibernation.</p>
<p class="sb-std">*   *   *</p>
<p class="tni">Luo Ji found himself in an ominous dream. He dreamt he was walking the halls of the Louvre. It was a dream he had never had before, because the past five years of bliss had given him no cause to dream of previous joys. In this dream, he was alone with the loneliness that had been absent for five years. His every footstep reverberated through the palace halls, and something seemed to leave him with every reverberation, until at last he dared not take another step. In front of him was the <span class="epub-i">Mona Lisa</span>. She no longer smiled, but looked on him with compassion in her eyes. When his footsteps stopped, the sound of the outdoor fountains trickled in and gradually grew louder, at which point he awoke to find that the sound was coming from the real world. It was raining.</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji reached out to hold his beloved’s hand, and discovered that his dream had become a reality.</p>
<p class="tx">Zhuang Yan was gone.</p>
<p class="tx">He rolled out of bed and entered the nursery, where a lamp was softly glowing, but Xia Xia wasn’t there. On the little bed, tidily made up, was one of Zhuang Yan’s paintings, a favorite of both of theirs. It was practically blank, and from a distance it looked like a sheet of paper. Closer in, you could see fine reeds in the lower left, and in the upper right the traces of a vanishing goose. In the blank center were two infinitesimally tiny people. But now, a graceful line of text had been added to it:</p>
<p class="tx"><span class="epub-i">My love, we’re waiting for you at doomsday.</span></p>
<p class="tx">It was bound to happen sooner or later. Could such a dream life last forever? <span class="epub-i">It was bound to happen, so don’t worry. You’re mentally prepared for it,</span> Luo Ji told himself, but a wave of dizziness came over him. As he picked up the painting and went toward the living room, his legs quavered and he felt as if he was floating.</p>
<p class="tx">The living room was empty, but the embers in the fireplace glowed a hazy red that made everything look like melting ice. The rain continued outside. It was to the same sound of rain that she had walked out of his dreams five years ago, and now she had returned to them, taking their child with her.</p>
<p class="tx">He picked up the phone to call Kent, but then he heard soft footsteps outside. A woman’s footsteps, but not Zhuang Yan’s. Even so, he tossed the phone down and went outside.</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji immediately recognized the slender figure standing on the porch in the rain, even though he could only see a silhouette.</p>
<p class="tx">“Hello, Dr. Luo,” Secretary General Say said.</p>
<p class="tx">“Hello … Where are my wife and child?”</p>
<p class="tx">“They’re waiting for you at doomsday,” she said, repeating the words in the painting.</p>
<p class="tx">“Why?”</p>
<p class="tx">“This is a PDC resolution, to let you work and fulfill your Wallfacer responsibilities. No harm will come to them, and children are better suited to hibernation than adults.”</p>
<p class="tx">“You’ve kidnapped them! That’s criminal!”</p>
<p class="tx">“We did not kidnap anyone.”</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji’s heart quaked at the implications of Say’s statement, and he pushed them out of his mind rather than face that reality. “I said that having them here was part of the plan!”</p>
<p class="tx">“But after a thorough investigation, the PDC decided that it was not part of the plan, and so took steps to prompt you to get to work.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Even if it’s not kidnapping, you took away my child without my consent, and that’s against the law.” When he realized who he was including in “you,” his heart quaked again and he leaned back feebly against the pillar behind him.</p>
<p class="tx">“True, but it is well within acceptability. Do not forget, Dr. Luo, that this and all of the resources you have tapped do not fall under existing legal frameworks, so the UN’s actions in the present time of crisis can be justified under the law.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Are you still working on behalf of the UN?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Yes.”</p>
<p class="tx">“You were reelected?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Yes.”</p>
<p class="tx">He wanted to change the subject to avoid facing the cold facts, but he failed. <span class="epub-i">What will I do without them? What will I do without them?</span> his heart asked over and over. Finally it slipped out of his mouth as he slid down the pillar to the ground. It felt like everything was collapsing around him, turning to magma from the top down, except that this time the magma was burning and pooled inside his heart.</p>
<p class="tx">“They’re still here, Dr. Luo. They’re waiting for you safe and sound in the future. You’ve always been a sober person, and you must become even more sober now. If not for all humanity, then for your family.” Say looked down at the ground, where Luo Ji sat beside the column on the brink of a breakdown.</p>
<p class="tx">Then a gust of wind blew rain onto the porch. Its refreshing chill and Say’s words managed to cool the fire raging in Luo Ji’s heart to an extent.</p>
<p class="tx">“This was your plan from the beginning, wasn’t it?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Yes, but this step was taken only when there was no other choice.”</p>
<p class="tx">“So she was … When she came, was she really a woman who did traditional painting?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Yes.”</p>
<p class="tx">“From the Central Academy of Fine Arts?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Yes.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Then was she…”</p>
<p class="tx">“Everything you saw was the real her. Everything you knew about her was true. Everything that made her <span class="epub-i">her</span>: Her past life, her family, her personality, and her mind.”</p>
<p class="tx">“You mean she really was that kind of woman?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Yes. Do you really think she could have faked it for five years? That’s how she really was. Innocent and gentle, like an angel. She didn’t fake anything, including her love for you, which was very real.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Then how could she carry out such a cruel deception? To never let anything slip for five years?”</p>
<p class="tx">“How do you know she never let anything slip? Her soul was shrouded in melancholy from the first time you saw her on that rainy night five years ago. She didn’t hide it. That melancholy stayed with her for five years like an ever-present background music that never stopped the whole time, and that’s why you didn’t notice.”</p>
<p class="tx">Now he understood. When he first saw her, what had it been that had touched the softest place in his heart? That made him feel like the entire world was an injury to her? That made him willing to protect her with his life? It was that gentle sadness concealed within her clear, innocent eyes—a sadness that, like the light in the fireplace, shone gently through her beauty. It was indeed an imperceptible background music that had quietly permeated his subconscious and pulled him step by step into the abyss of love.</p>
<p class="tx">“I can’t find them, can I?” he asked.</p>
<p class="tx">“That’s right. Like I said, this is a PDC resolution.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Then I’ll go with them to doomsday.”</p>
<p class="tx">“You may.”</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji had imagined he would be turned down, but—just as when he had given up his Wallfacer status—there was practically no space between his statement and Say’s reply. He knew that things weren’t as easy as that. He asked, “Is there a problem?”</p>
<p class="tx">“No. This time it really is fine. You know, since the birth of the Wallfacer Project there has always been dissent within the international community. Out of their own interests, most countries have supported some of the Wallfacers while opposing others, so there was always going to be a side that wants to be rid of you. Now that the first Wallbreaker is out and Tyler has failed, forces opposed to the project have grown more powerful and have driven its supporters to a stalemate. If at this point you proposed going directly to doomsday, it would be a compromise plan acceptable to both sides. But, Dr. Luo, are you truly willing to do that while humanity is fighting for survival?”</p>
<p class="tx">“You politicians sound off about humanity at the drop of a hat, but I can’t see humanity. I can only see individuals. I’m just one individual, an ordinary person, and I can’t take on the responsibility of saving all of humanity. I just want to live my own life.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Very well. But Zhuang Yan and Xia Xia are two of those individuals. Don’t you want to fulfill your responsibility to them? Even if she hurt you, I can see you still love her. And there’s the child, too. From the moment Hubble II finally confirmed the Trisolaran invasion, one thing has been certain: Humanity will fight to the end. When your beloved and your child awaken in four centuries, doomsday and the flames of war will be upon them, but by that time you’ll have lost your Wallfacer status and will be powerless to protect them. They will only be able to share a hellish existence with you while you await the final annihilation of the world. Is that what you want? Is that the life you want to give your wife and child?”</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji said nothing.</p>
<p class="tx">“If you won’t think of anything else, then just imagine that Doomsday Battle four centuries from now, and the look in their eyes when they see you! What sort of a person will they see? A man who abandoned the woman he loves most, together with all of humanity? A man unwilling to save all of the world’s children? A man who wouldn’t even save his own child? Are you, as a man, capable of withstanding their gaze?”</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji bent his head in silence. The sound of the nighttime rain falling on grass and lake was like myriad entreaties from another time and space.</p>
<p class="tx">“Do you really believe that I can change all of that?” Luo Ji asked, raising his head.</p>
<p class="tx">“Why not try? Of all the Wallfacers, you may have the greatest hope of success. I’ve come today to tell you that.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Go on, then. Why?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Because out of all of humanity, you are the only person that Trisolaris wants dead.”</p>
<p class="tx">Leaning against the pillar, Luo Ji stared at Say, but saw nothing. He struggled to remember.</p>
<p class="tx">Say went on. “That car crash was meant for you. It just accidentally hit your girlfriend.”</p>
<p class="tx">“But that really was an accident. That car changed direction because two other cars collided.”</p>
<p class="tx">“They had been planning that for a long time.”</p>
<p class="tx">“But I was just an ordinary person back then, with no special protection. It would’ve been simple to kill me. Why go to such lengths?”</p>
<p class="tx">“To make the murder look like an accident, so as not to attract any attention. They almost succeeded. There were fifty-one traffic accidents that killed five people in the city that day. But a scout hidden within the ETO provided an intelligence report confirming that the ETO had orchestrated the attempt on your life. And what’s most frightening is this: The order came from Trisolaris itself, conveyed to Evans through the sophons. To this date, that is the only assassination they’ve ever ordered.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Me? Trisolaris wants to kill me? For what reason?” Again, Luo Ji felt displaced from himself.</p>
<p class="tx">“I don’t know. No one knows, now. Evans may have known, but he’s dead. He was evidently the one who added the requirement to the assassination order that it not attract attention. That only reinforces your importance.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Importance?” Luo Ji shook his head with a wry smile. “Look at me. Do I really look like someone with superpowers?”</p>
<p class="tx">“You don’t have superpowers, so don’t let your thoughts go in that direction. It’ll only lead you astray,” Say said, gesturing emphatically. “You had no special powers in your prior research, be they supernatural abilities or extraordinary technical skills within the known laws of nature. Or, at least, none that we have been able to discover. That Evans required that the assassination not attract attention demonstrates this point as well, because it proves that your ability can be acquired by others.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Why didn’t you tell me?”</p>
<p class="tx">“We were afraid of influencing whatever it is you have. Too many unknowns. We felt it best to let things ride.”</p>
<p class="tx">“I’d once had a notion to work on cosmic sociology, because…” Then a small voice deep within him said, <span class="epub-i">You’re a Wallfacer!</span> This was the first time he had heard that voice. He also heard another nonexistent sound: the buzzing of the sophons as they flew about him. He even thought he saw a few blurry, firefly-like points of light. So for the first time, he acted like a Wallfacer and swallowed his words, saying only, “Is that relevant?”</p>
<p class="tx">Say shook her head. “Probably not. As far as we are aware, that’s just the topic of a research application that never actually went forward, much less obtained any results. Besides, even if you had done the research, we wouldn’t expect you to come up with results any more valuable than any other researcher.”</p>
<p class="tx">“And why is that?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Dr. Luo, we’re speaking frankly here. As I understand it, you’re a failure of a scholar. You perform research not out of any thirst for exploration, nor out of a sense of duty and mission, but simply as a way to make a living.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Isn’t that the way things are these days?”</p>
<p class="tx">“There’s nothing wrong with that, of course, but you exhibit all kinds of behaviors unbecoming a serious and dedicated scholar. Your research is utilitarian, your techniques opportunistic, you seek out sensationalism, and you have a history of embezzling funding. Character-wise, you’re cynical and irresponsible, and you harbor a mocking attitude toward a scholar’s vocation.… We’re actually well aware of the fact that you don’t care about the fate of the human race.”</p>
<p class="tx">“And that’s why you would stoop to such despicable means to coerce me. You’ve despised me all along, haven’t you?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Under normal circumstances, a man like you would never be tasked with such an important duty, but there is this one overriding detail: Trisolaris is afraid of you. Be your own Wallbreaker. Find out why.”</p>
<p class="tx">When Say finished, she stepped off the porch, got into the waiting car, and disappeared into the rainy mist.</p>
<p class="tx">Standing there, Luo Ji lost his sense of time. Gradually, the rain stopped and the wind picked up, blowing the night sky free of clouds, revealing the snow peaks, and letting the bright round moon bathe the world in silvery light.</p>
<p class="tx">Before going back inside, Luo Ji took one last look at the silver Garden of Eden, and his heart said to Zhuang Yan and Xia Xia, <span class="epub-i">My love, wait for me at doomsday</span>.</p>
<p class="sb-std">*   *   *</p>
<p class="tni">Standing in the giant shadow cast by the space plane <span class="epub-i">High Frontier</span> and looking up at its massive body, Zhang Beihai was involuntarily reminded of the carrier <span class="epub-i">Tang,</span> now long dismantled, and even wondered if the hull of <span class="epub-i">High Frontier</span> could contain a few steel plates from <span class="epub-i">Tang</span>. Over the course of more than thirty reentries, the burning heat had left scorch marks on the body of the space plane, and it really did look the way <span class="epub-i">Tang</span> had when it was under construction. The body had the same sense of age, but the two cylindrical booster rockets beneath the wings were new, making it resemble repairs to ancient architecture in Europe: The newness of the patches stood in stark contrast to the coloring of the original building, reminding visitors that those parts were modern additions. But if the boosters were removed, <span class="epub-i">High Frontier</span> would look like a big old transport plane.</p>
<p class="tx">The space plane was a very new thing, one of the few breakthroughs in aerospace technology over the last five years, and quite possibly the last generation of chemically propelled spacecraft. The concept had been proposed the previous century as a replacement for the space shuttle that could take off from a runway like an ordinary plane and fly conventionally to the top layer of the atmosphere, at which point the rockets would be turned on for spaceflight and it would enter orbit. <span class="epub-i">High Frontier</span> was the fourth such space plane in operation, and many more were under construction. They would, in the near future, take on the task of building the space elevator.</p>
<p class="tx">“I once imagined that we would never get the chance to go to space in our lifetime,” Zhang Beihai said to Chang Weisi, who had come to see him off. He and twenty other space force officers, all of them members of the three strategic institutes, would take <span class="epub-i">High Frontier</span> to the ISS.</p>
<p class="tx">“Are there naval officers who’ve never been to sea?” Chang Weisi said, smiling.</p>
<p class="tx">“Of course there are. Lots of them. Some people in the navy sought exactly that. But I’m not that sort of person.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Beihai, be aware of one thing: The active-duty astronauts are still air force personnel, so you are the first representatives of the space force to go into space.”</p>
<p class="tx">“It’s a shame there’s no specific mission.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Experience is the mission. A space strategist ought to have a consciousness of space. This wasn’t feasible before the space plane, since sending up one person cost tens of millions, but it’s much cheaper now. We’ll try to put more strategists into space soon, since we’re the space force, after all. Right now we’re more like a college of bullshit, and that just won’t do.”</p>
<p class="tx">Then the boarding call was issued, and the officers began climbing the airstair to the plane. They wore uniforms but not space suits, and looked no different than if they were taking standard air travel. It was a sign of progress, demonstrating that going to space was a little more normal than it had been. From the uniforms, Zhang Beihai noticed that there were people from other departments boarding the plane as well.</p>
<p class="tx">“Ah, Beihai, there’s another important thing,” Chang Weisi said as Beihai was about to pick up his carry-on. “The CMC has studied the report we submitted on sending political cadres to the future as reinforcements, and the brass feel that conditions are still premature.”</p>
<p class="tx">Zhang Beihai squinted, as if warding against a glare, though they were still in the space plane’s shadow. “Commander, my feeling is that we ought to keep the entire four-century period in mind when making plans, and to be clear about what’s urgent and what’s important.… But please be assured that I won’t say that in any formal setting. I know very well that our superiors are considering the bigger picture.”</p>
<p class="tx">“The higher-ups have affirmed your long-term thinking and commend you for it. The document stresses one point: The plan to send reinforcements to the future has not been denied. Research and planning will continue, but present conditions are still premature for execution. I feel—and this is of course my personal opinion—that we need additional qualified political cadres in our ranks to lessen the current work pressures before we can consider it.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Commander, surely you are aware of what ‘qualified’ means in the context of the Space Force Political Department, and what the basic requirements are. Qualified people are becoming increasingly rare.”</p>
<p class="tx">“But we’ve got to look forward. If there are breakthroughs in the two key technologies of phase one, the space elevator and controlled fusion—and there’s hope of this in our lifetimes—then things will be better.… Okay then. Off with you.”</p>
<p class="tx">Zhang Beihai saluted him and then stepped onto the stairs. His first feeling upon entering the cabin was that it wasn’t much different than a civilian airliner, except the seats were wider, having been designed to accommodate space suits. During the first flights of the space plane, all passengers had to wear space suits as a precaution, but there was no need for that now.</p>
<p class="tx">He had a window seat, and the seat immediately next to his was also occupied. A civilian, judging from his clothing. Zhang Beihai nodded to him in greeting before turning his attention to fastening the seat’s complicated safety belt.</p>
<p class="tx">There was no countdown. <span class="epub-i">High Frontier</span> started its air engines and began taxiing. Because of its weight, it spent longer on the ground during takeoff than an ordinary plane, but at last it lifted ponderously off the ground and embarked on its voyage into space.</p>
<p class="tx">“This is the thirty-eighth flight of the space plane <span class="epub-i">High Frontier</span>. The aviation phase has started and will last approximately thirty minutes. Please do not unfasten your safety belts,” said a voice over the intercom.</p>
<p class="tx">As he watched the ground recede through the cabin window, Zhang Beihai’s thoughts turned to the past. During training to become a carrier captain, he had completed naval aviation pilot training and had passed the level three fighter pilot exam. On his first solo trip he had watched Earth recede like this and suddenly discovered that he loved the sky even more deeply than the ocean. Now, his longing was for the space beyond the sky.</p>
<p class="tx">He was a man destined to fly high and fly far.</p>
<p class="tx">“Not much different from civil aviation, you think?”</p>
<p class="tx">He turned to see the speaker sitting in the next seat, and recognized him at last. “You must be Dr. Ding Yi. I’ve been wanting to meet you.”</p>
<p class="tx">“But it’s going to get rough in just a little bit,” the man said, ignoring Zhang Beihai’s salutation. He went on, “The first time, I didn’t take off my glasses after the aviation phase, and they crushed my nose with the weight of a brick. The second time I took them off, but then they flew off after gravity went away. It wasn’t easy for the guy to find them for me in the air filter in the plane’s tail.”</p>
<p class="tx">“I thought you went up on the space shuttle the first time. On TV, that didn’t look like a very nice trip,” Zhang Beihai said with a grin.</p>
<p class="tx">“Oh, I’m talking about taking the space plane. If we count the shuttle, then this is my fourth time. On the shuttle, they took away my glasses before takeoff.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Why are you going to the station this time? You’ve just been put in charge of a controlled fusion project. The third branch, isn’t it?”</p>
<p class="tx">Four branches had been set up for the controlled fusion project, each pursuing a different direction of research.</p>
<p class="tx">Restrained by the safety belt, Ding Yi lifted a hand to point at Zhang Beihai. “You study controlled fusion and you can’t go to space? You sound the same as those guys. The ultimate goal of our research is spaceship engines, and the real power held by the aerospace industry today remains to a large degree in the hands of the people who used to make chemical rocket engines. They’re saying now that we’re just supposed to devote ourselves to controlled fusion on the ground, and that we basically have no say in the general plan of the space fleet.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Dr. Ding, your views are identical to mine.” Zhang Beihai loosened his safety belt and leaned over. “For a space fleet, space travel is an entirely different concept from chemical rocketry. Even the space elevator is different from today’s aerospace techniques. But right now the aerospace industry of the past still holds too much power. Its people are ideologically ossified and legalistic, and if things continue, there will be all kinds of trouble.”</p>
<p class="tx">“There’s nothing to be done. At least they’ve managed to come up with this in the course of five years.” He pointed around him. “And this gives them the capital to squeeze out outsiders.”</p>
<p class="tx">The cabin intercom started up. “Please take care: We are approaching an altitude of twenty thousand meters. Due to the thin atmosphere we will now be flying through, there may be sharp drops in altitude that will produce momentary weightlessness. Please do not panic. Again, please keep your safety belts fastened.”</p>
<p class="tx">Ding Yi said, “But our trip to the station this time is unrelated to the controlled fusion project. It’s to recover those cosmic ray catchers. That’s some expensive stuff.”</p>
<p class="tx">“The space-based high-energy physics research project has been stopped?” asked Zhang Beihai, retightening his safety belt.</p>
<p class="tx">“It’s stopped. Knowing that there’s no need to waste effort in the future counts as a kind of success.”</p>
<p class="tx">“The sophons won.”</p>
<p class="tx">“That’s right. So humanity only has a few reserves of theory remaining: classical physics, quantum mechanics, and a still-embryonic string theory. How far their applications can be pushed is up to fate.”</p>
<p class="tx"><span class="epub-i">High Frontier</span> continued to climb, its aviation engines rumbling under the strain as if it were struggling up a tall mountain, but there were no sudden drops. The space plane was now approaching thirty thousand meters, the limit of aviation. Looking out, Zhang Beihai saw that the blue of the sky was fading as it got dark, even though the sun became even more dazzling.</p>
<p class="tx">“Our current flight altitude is thirty-one thousand meters. The aviation phase is complete and the spaceflight phase is about to begin. Please adjust your seats according to the illustration onscreen to minimize the discomfort of hypergravitation.”</p>
<p class="tx">Then Zhang Beihai felt the plane rise gently, as if it had discarded a burden.</p>
<p class="tx">“Aircraft engine assembly separated. Aerospace engine ignition countdown: ten, nine, eight…”</p>
<p class="tx">“For them, this is the real launch. Enjoy,” Ding Yi said, and closed his eyes.</p>
<p class="tx">When the countdown reached zero, there was a huge roar, as if the entire sky outside was shouting, and then hypergravity came like a giant, slowly tightening fist. With effort, Zhang Beihai twisted his head to look out the window. He was unable to see the flames spurting from the engine, but a wide swath of the rarified air of the sky outside was painted red, as if <span class="epub-i">High Frontier</span> was floating through a sunset.</p>
<p class="tx">Five minutes later, the boosters detached, and after another five minutes of acceleration, the main engine cut off. <span class="epub-i">High Frontier</span> had entered orbit.</p>
<p class="tx">The giant hand of hypergravity suddenly let go and Zhang Beihai’s body bounced back from the depths of his seat. Although the restraint of his safety belt kept him from floating away, to his senses he and the <span class="epub-i">High Frontier</span> were no longer parts of the same whole. The gravity that had once bonded them together was gone, and he and the plane were now flying in parallel paths through space. Out the window were the brightest stars he had ever seen in his life. Later, when the space plane adjusted its attitude, the sun streamed in through the windows and myriad points of light danced in its beams: dust particles that had weightlessly taken to the air. As the plane gradually rotated, he saw the Earth. From this low orbital position he couldn’t see the entire sphere, only the arc of the horizon, but he could clearly make out the shapes of the continents.</p>
<p class="tx">Then the starfield, that long-awaited sight, finally came into view, and he said in his heart, <span class="epub-i">Dad, I’ve taken the first step.</span></p>
<p class="sb-std">*   *   *</p>
<p class="tni">For five years, General Fitzroy had felt like a Wallfacer in the actual sense of the word, in that the wall he faced was the big screen with the image of the stars between Earth and Trisolaris. At first glance it was entirely black, but closer inspection of the screen revealed points of starlight. He had grown so well acquainted with those stars that when he had attempted to sketch their position on a piece of paper at a dull meeting the previous day and compared it to the actual photo afterward, he was basically correct. The three stars of Trisolaris lying inconspicuously at the center looked like a single star in the standard view, but every time he magnified them he found that their positions had changed. This chaotic cosmic dance so fascinated him that he forgot what he was looking for in the first place. The brush that had been observed five years ago had gradually faded away, and no second brush had appeared. The Trisolaran Fleet left a visible wake only when it passed through interstellar dust clouds. Earth’s astronomers had verified through observations of the absorption of background starlight that during the fleet’s four-century-long voyage through space, it would pass through five of them. People dubbed these “snow patches” after the way that passersby left tracks on snowy ground.</p>
<p class="tx">If the Trisolaran Fleet had maintained a constant acceleration over the past five years, it would pass the second snow patch today.</p>
<p class="tx">Fitzroy arrived at the Hubble II Space Telescope Control Center early. Ringier laughed when he saw him. “General, why do you remind me of a child who wants another present so soon after Christmas?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Didn’t you say that they would cross the snow patch today?”</p>
<p class="tx">“That’s right, but the Trisolaran Fleet has only traveled 0.22 light-years, so it’s still four light-years away. Light reflected from its passage through the snow won’t reach Earth for another four years.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Oh, I’m sorry. I forgot about that,” Fitzroy said with an embarrassed shake of his head. “I really wanted to see them again. This time, we’ll be able to measure their speed and acceleration at the time of passage, and that’s very important.”</p>
<p class="tx">“I’m sorry. We’re outside the light cone.”</p>
<p class="tx">“What’s that?”</p>
<p class="tx">“It’s what physicists call the cone shape that light describes as it emanates along the time axis. It’s impossible for people outside the cone to comprehend events taking place inside the cone. Think about it: Information about who-knows-how-many major events in the universe is flying toward us right now at the speed of light. Some of it has been traveling for hundreds of millions of years, but we’re still outside the light cones of those events.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Fate lies within the light cone.”</p>
<p class="tx">Ringier considered this, then gave him an appreciative nod. “General, that’s an excellent analogy! But sophons outside the light cone can see events on the inside.”</p>
<p class="tx">“So the sophons have changed fate,” Fitzroy said with feeling, and turned back to an image-processing terminal. Five years before, the young engineer Harris had started to cry at the sight of the brush, and afterward had suffered from depression so severe that he became practically useless at his job and was let go. No one knew where he had ended up.</p>
<p class="tx">Fortunately, there weren’t many people like him.</p>
<p class="sb-std">*   *   *</p>
<p class="tni">Temperatures were cooling rapidly these days, and it had started to snow, causing the green to gradually disappear from the surrounding area and a thin layer of ice to freeze on the surface of the lake. Nature lost its bright coloring, like a color photograph turned black-and-white. Warm weather here had always been short-lived, but to Luo Ji, the Garden of Eden felt like it had lost its aura since the departure of his wife and child.</p>
<p class="tx">Winter was a season for thinking.</p>
<p class="tx">When Luo Ji began to think, he was surprised to find that his thoughts were already in progress. He remembered back to middle school and a lesson a teacher had taught him for language arts exams: First, take a look at the final essay question, then start the exam from the top, so that as you work on the exam, your subconscious will be thinking over the essay question, like a background process in a computer. Now he knew that from the moment he became a Wallfacer, his thinking had started up and had never stopped. The entire process was subconscious and he had never been aware of it.</p>
<p class="tx">He quickly retraced the steps his thoughts had already completed.</p>
<p class="tx">He was now certain that everything about his current situation stemmed from his chance encounter with Ye Wenjie nine years ago. Afterward, he had never spoken of the meeting with anyone for fear of causing unnecessary trouble for himself, but with Ye Wenjie gone, the meeting was a secret known only to him and Trisolaris. In those days, only two sophons had reached Earth, but he could be certain that on that evening, they had been there by Yang Dong’s grave, listening to their every word. And the fluctuation in their quantum formation that instantly crossed the space of four light-years meant that Trisolaris had also been listening.</p>
<p class="tx">But what had Ye Wenjie said?</p>
<p class="tx">Secretary General Say had been wrong about one thing. Luo Ji’s never-begun research into cosmic sociology <span class="epub-i">was</span> quite likely the immediate reason why Trisolaris wanted to kill him. Of course, Say didn’t know that the project had been Ye Wenjie’s suggestion, and although it had just seemed to Luo Ji like an excellent opportunity to make scholarship entertaining, he had been looking for just such an opportunity. Prior to the Trisolar Crisis, the study of alien civilization was indeed a sensational project that would have garnered easy media attention.</p>
<p class="tx">The aborted research project wasn’t important in and of itself. What mattered was the instruction that Ye Wenjie had given him, so that’s where Luo Ji’s mind was stuck.</p>
<p class="tx">Over and over again he recalled her words: <span class="epub-i">Suppose a vast number of civilizations are distributed throughout the universe, on the order of the number of detectable stars. Lots and lots of them. The mathematical structure of cosmic sociology is far clearer than that of human sociology.</span></p>
<p class="tx"><span class="epub-i">The factors of chaos and randomness in the complex makeups of every civilized society in the universe get filtered out by the immense distance, so those civilizations can act as reference points that are relatively easy to manipulate mathematically.</span></p>
<p class="tx"><span class="epub-i">First: Survival is the primary need of civilization. Second: Civilization continuously grows and expands, but the total matter in the universe remains constant.</span></p>
<p class="tx"><span class="epub-i">One more thing: To derive a basic picture of cosmic sociology from these two axioms, you need two other important concepts: chains of suspicion and the technological explosion. I’m afraid there won’t be that opportunity.… Well, you might as well just forget I said anything. Either way, I’ve fulfilled my duty.</span></p>
<p class="tx">He had returned countless times to these words, analyzing each sentence from every angle and chewing over every word. The component words had been strung into a set of prayer beads, and like a pious monk he stroked them time and again; and unstrung them, scattered them, and restrung them in different orders until a layer of each had been worn away.</p>
<p class="tx">Try as he might, he couldn’t extract the clue from those words, the clue that made him the only person that Trisolaris wanted to destroy.</p>
<p class="tx">During his lengthy contemplation he strolled aimlessly. He walked along the desolate lakeside, walked through the wind as it grew ever colder, oftentimes completing a circuit of the lake unawares. Twice he even walked to the foot of the snow peak, where the patch of exposed rock that looked like a moonscape was blanketed with snow, becoming one with the snowcap ahead of him. Only then did his mood leave the track of his thoughts, Zhang Yan’s eyes appearing before his own in the boundless blank white of the natural painting. But he was now able to keep his mood in check and continue turning himself into a thinking machine.</p>
<p class="tx">A month went by without him knowing it, and then winter came in full force. But he still conducted his lengthy thought process outside, sharpening his mind on the cold.</p>
<p class="tx">By this time, most of the prayer beads had been worn faint, except for twenty-one of them. These ones seemed only to get newer the more he polished them, and now emitted a faint light:</p>
<p class="tx"><span class="epub-i">Survival is the primary need of civilization.</span></p>
<p class="tx"><span class="epub-i">Civilization continuously grows and expands, but the total matter in the universe remains constant.</span></p>
<p class="tx">He fixated on these two sentences, the axioms Ye Wenjie had proposed for cosmic civilization. Although he did not know their ultimate secret, his long meditation told him that the answer lay within them.</p>
<p class="tx">But it was too simple a clue. What could he and the human race gain from two self-evident rules?</p>
<p class="tx">Don’t dismiss simplicity. Simple means solid. The entire mansion of mathematics was erected on a foundation of this kind of irreducibly simple, yet logically rock-solid, axiom.</p>
<p class="tx">With this in mind, he looked around him. All that surrounded him was huddled up against the icy cold of winter, but most of the world still teemed with life. It was a living world brimming with a complex profusion of oceans, land, and sky as vast as the foggy sea, but all of it ran according to a rule even simpler than the axioms of cosmic civilization: survival of the fittest.</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji now saw his problem: Where Darwin had taken the boundless living world and made a rule to sum it up, Luo Ji had to use the rules he knew to uncover a picture of cosmic civilization. It was the opposite road to Darwin’s, but a more difficult one.</p>
<p class="tx">So he began sleeping in the daytime and thinking at night. Whenever the perils of his mental roadway terrified him, he found comfort in the stars overhead. Like Ye Wenjie had said, the distance hid the complex structure of each star, making them just a collection of points in space with a clear mathematical configuration. It was a thinker’s paradise, his paradise. To Luo Ji, at least, it felt like the world in front of him was far clearer and more concise than Darwin’s.</p>
<p class="tx">But this simple world held a perplexing riddle: The entire galaxy was a vast empty desert, but a highly intelligent civilization had appeared on the star nearest to us. In this mystery, his thoughts found an entry point.</p>
<p class="tx">Gradually, the two concepts Ye Wenjie had left unexplained came into focus: chains of suspicion and the technology explosion.</p>
<p class="tx">The weather that day was colder than usual, and from Luo Ji’s vantage point on the lakeshore, the cold seemed to make the stars into an even purer silver lattice against the black sky, solemnly displaying for him their clear mathematical configuration. All of a sudden, he found himself in a state that was entirely new. In his perception, the entire universe froze, all motion stopped, and everything from stars down to atoms entered a state of rest, with the stars just countless cold, dimensionless points reflecting the cold light of an outside world.… Everything was at rest, waiting for his final awakening.</p>
<p class="tx">The distant bark of a dog brought him back to reality. Probably a service canine belonging to the security forces.</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji was beside himself with excitement. Although he hadn’t actually glimpsed that final mystery, he had clearly felt its presence just now.</p>
<p class="tx">He collected his thoughts and tried to reenter that state, but was unsuccessful. Though the stars remained the same, the world around him interfered with his thinking. All was shrouded in darkness, but he could make out the distant snowcap, the lakeside forest and grassland, and the house behind him, and through the house’s half-open door he could see the dark glow of the fire.… Next to the simple clarity of the stars, everything in the vicinity represented a complexity and chaos that mathematics would be forever unable to grasp, so he attempted to remove them from his perception.</p>
<p class="tx">He walked out onto the frozen lake—cautiously, at first, but when he found that the icy surface seemed solid, he walked and slid ahead more quickly, until he reached a point where he could no longer make out the lakeshore through the night around him. Now he was surrounded on all sides by smooth ice. This distanced him somewhat from earthly complexity and chaos, and by imagining that the icy plane extended infinitely in every direction, he obtained a simple, flat world; a cold, planar mental platform. Cares vanished, and soon his perception reentered that state of rest, where the stars were waiting for him.… </p>
<p class="tx">Then, with a crunch, the ice beneath Luo Ji’s feet broke and his body plunged straight into the water.</p>
<p class="tx">At the precise instant the icy water covered Luo Ji’s head, he saw the stillness of the stars shatter. The starfield curled up into a vortex and scattered into turbulent, chaotic waves of silver. The biting cold, like crystal lightning, shot into the fog of his consciousness, illuminating everything. He continued to sink. The turbulent stars overhead shrank into a fuzzy halo at the break in the ice above his head, leaving nothing but cold and inky blackness surrounding him, as if he wasn’t sinking into ice water, but had jumped into the blackness of space.</p>
<p class="tx">In the dead, lonely, cold blackness, he saw the truth of the universe.</p>
<p class="tx">He surfaced quickly. His head surged out of the water and he spat out a mouthful. He tried crawling onto the ice at the edge of the hole but could only bring his body up halfway before the ice collapsed again. He crawled and collapsed, forging a path through the ice, but progress was slow and his stamina began to give out from the cold. He didn’t know whether the security team would notice anything unusual on the lake before he drowned or froze to death. Stripping off his soaked down jacket to lessen the burden on his movement, he had the idea that if he spread out the jacket on the ice, it might distribute the pressure and allow him to crawl onto it. He did so, and then, with just enough energy left for one last attempt, he used every last ounce of strength to crawl onto the down jacket at the edge of the ice. This time the ice didn’t collapse, and at last his entire body was lying on top of it. He crept carefully ahead, daring to stand up only after putting a fair distance between him and the hole. Then he saw flashlights waving on the shore and heard shouts.</p>
<p class="tx">He stood on the ice, his teeth chattering in the cold, a cold that seemed to come not from the lake water or icy wind, but from a direct transmission from outer space. He kept his head down, knowing that from this moment on, the stars were not like they once were. He didn’t dare look up. As Rey Diaz feared the sun, Luo Ji had acquired a severe phobia of the stars. He bowed his head, and through chattering teeth, said to himself:</p>
<p class="tx">“Wallfacer Luo Ji, I am your Wallbreaker.”</p>
<p class="sb-std">*   *   *</p>
<p class="tni">“Your hair’s turned white over the years,” Luo Ji said to Kent.</p>
<p class="tx">“For many years to come, at least, it’s not going to get any whiter,” Kent said, laughing. In Luo Ji’s presence, he had always worn a courteous, studied face. This was the first time Luo Ji had seen him with such a sincere smile. In his eyes, he saw the words that remained unspoken: <span class="epub-i">You’ve finally begun to work.</span></p>
<p class="tx">“I need someplace safer,” he said.</p>
<p class="tx">“Not a problem, Dr. Luo. Any particular requests?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Nothing apart from safety. It must be absolutely secure.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Doctor, an absolutely safe place does not exist, but we can come very close. I’ll have to warn you, though, these places are always underground. And as for comfort…”</p>
<p class="tx">“Disregard comfort. However, it’d be best if it’s in China.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Not a problem. I’ll take care of it immediately.”</p>
<p class="tx">When Kent was about to leave, Luo Ji stopped him. Pointing out the window at the Garden of Eden, which was now completely blanketed in snow, he said, “Can you tell me the name of this place? I’m going to miss it.”</p>
<p class="sb-std">*   *   *</p>
<p class="tni">Luo Ji traveled more than ten hours under tight security before reaching his destination. When he exited the car, he knew immediately where he was: It was here, in the broad, squat hall that looked like an underground parking garage, that he had embarked on his fantastic new life five years before. Now, after five years of dreams alternating with nightmares, he had returned to the starting point.</p>
<p class="tx">Greeting him was a man named Zhang Xiang, the same young man who—along with Shi Qiang—had sent him off five years ago, and who now was in charge of security. He had aged considerably in five years and now looked like a middle-aged man.</p>
<p class="tx">The elevator was still operated by an armed soldier—not the one from back then, of course, but Luo Ji still felt a certain warmth in his heart. The old-style elevator had been swapped for one that was completely automated and did not require an operator, so the soldier merely pressed the “-10” button and the elevator started its descent.</p>
<p class="tx">The underground structure had clearly undergone a recent renovation: The ventilation ducts in the hallways had been hidden, the walls coated with moisture-proof tile, and all traces of the civil air defense slogans had disappeared.</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji’s living quarters took up the whole of the tenth basement floor. While it was no match in comfort for the house he had just left, it was equipped with comprehensive communications and computer equipment, along with a conference room set up with a remote video conferencing system, giving the place the feel of a command center.</p>
<p class="tx">The administrator made a particular point of showing Luo Ji a set of light switches in the room, each of which bore a small picture of the sun. The administrator called them “sun lamps” and said they needed to be turned on for no fewer than five hours a day. Originally intended as labor-safety products for mine workers, they could simulate sunlight, including UV rays, as supplementary daylight for people spending long periods underground.</p>
<p class="tx">The next day, as Luo Ji had requested, the astronomer Albert Ringier visited the tenth basement.</p>
<p class="tx">When he saw him, Luo Ji said, “You were the first to observe the flight path of the Trisolaran Fleet?”</p>
<p class="tx">Ringier looked a little unhappy to hear this. “I’ve repeatedly issued statements to reporters, but they insist on forcing this honor on my head. It should be credited to General Fitzroy. He was the one who demanded that Hubble II observe Trisolaris during testing. Otherwise we might have missed the chance, since the wake in the interstellar dust would have faded.”</p>
<p class="tx">“What I’d like to talk to you about isn’t connected to that. I did a bit of astronomy once, but not in much depth, and I’m no longer familiar with the subject. My first question is this: If, in the universe, there exists another observer apart from Trisolaris, has Earth’s position been revealed to them?”</p>
<p class="tx">“No.”</p>
<p class="tx">“You’re sure of that?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Yes.”</p>
<p class="tx">“But Earth has exchanged communication with Trisolaris.”</p>
<p class="tx">“That low-frequency communication would reveal only the general direction of Earth and Trisolaris in the Milky Way Galaxy, and the distance between the two worlds. That is, if there’s a third-party recipient, the communication would make it possible for them to know of the existence of two civilized worlds 4.22 light-years apart in the Orion Arm of the Milky Way, but they would still be ignorant of the precise position of those two worlds. In fact, determining each other’s position through this kind of exchange is only feasible for stars in close proximity, like the sun and the stars of Trisolaris. For a slightly more distant third-party observer, however, even if we communicate directly with them, we wouldn’t be able to determine each other’s position.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Why is that?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Marking the position of a star for another observer in the universe is hardly as easy as people imagine. Here’s an analogy: You’re taking a plane through the Sahara Desert and a grain of sand below you shouts ‘Here I am!’ You hear the shout, but can you fix a location for that grain of sand from the plane? There are nearly two hundred billion stars in the Milky Way. It’s practically a desert of stars.”</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji nodded in apparent relief. “I understand. So that’s it, then.”</p>
<p class="tx">“What is?” Ringier asked in confusion.</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji didn’t answer, but asked instead, “Using our present level of technology, is there a way to indicate the position of a star in the universe?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Yes, by using directed very high frequency electromagnetic waves, equal to or higher in frequency than visible light, and then harnessing stellar power to transmit information. In simple terms, you’d make the star flash, like a cosmic lighthouse.”</p>
<p class="tx">“This far exceeds our present technical capabilities.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Oh, I’m sorry. I overlooked your precondition. At our present technical capabilities, it would be fairly difficult to show a star’s position to the far reaches of the universe. There’s still a way, but interpreting the positional information requires a level of technology far beyond that of humanity, and even, I believe, beyond that of Trisolaris.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Tell me about that approach.”</p>
<p class="tx">“The key information is the relative position of stars. If you specify a region of space in the Milky Way that contains a sufficient number of stars—perhaps a few dozen would be sufficient—their relative arrangement in three-dimensional space would be totally unique, like a fingerprint.”</p>
<p class="tx">“I’m starting to understand. We send out a message containing the position of the star we wish to point out, relative to the surrounding stars, and the recipient compares the data to its star map to determine the star’s location.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Right. But things aren’t that simple. The recipient must possess a three-dimensional model of the entire galaxy that precisely indicates the relative position of every one of a hundred billion stars. Then, after receiving our message, they would have to search through that enormous database to find an area of space that matches the pattern of positions we sent out.”</p>
<p class="tx">“No, it’s not simple at all. It’s like recording the relative position of every grain of sand in the desert.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Even harder than that. The Milky Way, unlike the desert, is in motion, and the relative positions of its stars are constantly changing. The later the position information is received, the greater the error caused by these changes. This means the database has to be able to predict the changes in position of each of those hundred billion stars. In theory, it’s not a problem, but to actually do it … God…”</p>
<p class="tx">“Would it be hard for us to send that positional information?”</p>
<p class="tx">“No, because we would only need to have a position pattern for a limited number of stars. And now that I’ve had time to think about it, given the average stellar density of the outer arm of the galaxy, a position pattern with no more than thirty stars should be sufficient. That’s a small amount of information.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Good. Now I’ll ask a third question: Outside the Solar System, there are other stars with planets. You’ve discovered several hundred, right?”</p>
<p class="tx">“More than a thousand to date.”</p>
<p class="tx">“And the closest to the sun?”</p>
<p class="tx">“244J2E1, sixteen light-years from the sun.”</p>
<p class="tx">“As I remember it, the serial numbers are set like this: the prefix digits represent the order of discovery; the letters J, E, and X stand for Jupiter-type planets, Earth-type planets, and other planets, respectively; and the digits following the letter indicate the number of that type of planet in the system.”</p>
<p class="tx">“That’s right. 244J2E1 is a star with three planets, two of them Jupiter-type and one Earth-type.”</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji thought for a moment, then shook his head. “That’s too close. How about a little farther, like … around fifty light-years?”</p>
<p class="tx">“187J3X1, 49.5 light-years from the sun.”</p>
<p class="tx">“That one’s fine. Can you draw up a position pattern for that star?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Of course I can.”</p>
<p class="tx">“How long would it take? Would you need help?”</p>
<p class="tx">“I can do it here if there’s a computer with Internet. For a pattern of, say, thirty stars, I can give it to you tonight.”</p>
<p class="tx">“What time is it now? It’s not nighttime already?”</p>
<p class="tx">“I’d say it’s probably morning, Dr. Luo.”</p>
<p class="tx">Ringier went to the computer room next door, and Luo Ji called in Kent and Zhang Xiang. He first explained to Kent that he wanted the PDC to hold the next Wallfacer hearing as soon as possible.</p>
<p class="tx">Kent said, “There are lots of PDC meetings these days. Once you’ve submitted the application, you’ll probably only have to wait a few days.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Then I’ll have to wait. But I’d really like it as soon as possible. Also, I have a request: to attend the hearing here via video rather than go to the UN.”</p>
<p class="tx">Kent looked reluctant. “Dr. Luo, don’t you think that’s a little inappropriate? For such a high-level international meeting … It’s a question of respect for the participants.”</p>
<p class="tx">“It’s part of the plan. All those bizarre requests I made in the past were fulfilled, but this one’s over the line?”</p>
<p class="tx">“You know…” Kent faltered.</p>
<p class="tx">“I know that a Wallfacer’s status isn’t like it once was, but I insist on this.” When he continued, it was in a softer voice, even though he knew that the sophons hanging in the vicinity could still hear. “There are two possibilities now: One, if everything is like it used to be, I wouldn’t mind going to the UN. But there’s another possibility: I may be in a very dangerous situation, and I can’t take that risk.”</p>
<p class="tx">Then he said to Zhang Xiang, “That’s why I’ve brought you here. We may become a target for a concentrated enemy attack, so security must be strengthened.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Don’t worry, Dr. Luo. We’re located two hundred meters below ground. The area above us is under lockdown, an antimissile system has been deployed, and a state-of-the-art subterranean warning system has been installed to detect the digging of a tunnel from any direction. I guarantee to you that our security is foolproof.”</p>
<p class="tx">When the two men left, Luo Ji took a walk down the hallway, his thoughts turning involuntarily to the Garden of Eden (he knew its name now, but still called it that in his heart) and its lake and snow peak. He knew that it was quite likely he would spend the rest of his life underground.</p>
<p class="tx">He looked around at the sunlamps in the hallway ceiling. The light they emitted was nothing like the sun.</p>
<p class="sb-std">*   *   *</p>
<p class="tni">Two meteors moved slowly across the starfield. All was dark on the ground, and the distant horizon blended into one with the night sky. A burst of whispers sounded through the dark, although the speakers remained unseen, as if the voices themselves were invisible creatures floating in the darkness.</p>
<p class="tx">With a clink, a small flame appeared in the darkness, its dim light revealing three faces: Qin Shi Huang, Aristotle, and Von Neumann. The flame came from a lighter in Aristotle’s hand. When a few torches were extended, he lit one, which then passed fire among the others to form a shaky light in the wilderness and illuminate a group of people drawn from every era. Their whispers continued.</p>
<p class="tx">Qin Shi Huang leapt up on a stone and brandished his sword, and the crowd fell silent.</p>
<p class="tx">“The Lord has issued a new command: Destroy Wallfacer Luo Ji,” he said.</p>
<p class="tx">“We too have received this command. This is the second assassination order that the Lord has issued for Luo Ji,” Mozi said.</p>
<p class="tx">“But it will be difficult to kill him now,” someone said.</p>
<p class="tx">“Difficult? It’s impossible!”</p>
<p class="tx">“If Evans hadn’t added that condition to the first assassination order, he would have been dead five years ago.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Perhaps Evans was right to do so. After all, we don’t know his reasons. Luo Ji was lucky to escape a second time in the UN Plaza.”</p>
<p class="tx">Qin Shi Huang stopped the debate with a wave of his sword. “Shall we talk instead about what to do?”</p>
<p class="tx">“There’s nothing we can do. Who can even get anywhere near a bunker two hundred meters deep, much less get inside? It’s guarded too tightly.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Shall we consider nuclear weapons?”</p>
<p class="tx">“The place is an antinuke bunker from the Cold War, damn it.”</p>
<p class="tx">“The only viable option is sending someone to infiltrate security.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Can that be done? We’ve had years. Has there ever been a successful infiltration?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Infiltrate his kitchen!” This prompted some laughter.</p>
<p class="tx">“Cut the crap. The Lord ought to tell us the truth, and maybe we can come up with a better option.”</p>
<p class="tx">Qin Shi Huang answered the last speaker: “I also made that request, but the Lord said the truth was the most important secret in the universe and could not be revealed. The Lord spoke of it with Evans under the impression that humanity already knew but later learned otherwise.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Then ask the Lord to transfer technology!”</p>
<p class="tx">Many other voices echoed this. Qin Shi Huang said, “This was another request I made. To my surprise, the Lord uncharacteristically did not reject it entirely.”</p>
<p class="tx">A commotion took hold of the crowd, but Qin Shi Huang’s next words quieted the excitement: “But once the Lord learned the location of the target, the request was swiftly rejected. It said that as far as the target’s location was concerned, any technology It could transfer to us would be ineffective.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Is he really that important?” Von Neumann asked, unable to conceal a note of jealousy in his voice. As the first successful Wallbreaker, he had risen rapidly in the organization.</p>
<p class="tx">“The Lord is afraid of him.”</p>
<p class="tx">Einstein said, “I have thought this over for a long time, and I believe that the Lord’s fear of Luo Ji has only one possible reason: He is the mouthpiece of certain power.”</p>
<p class="tx">Qin Shi Huang shut down further discussion of the subject: “Don’t get into that. Instead, let’s think of how to fulfill the Lord’s command.”</p>
<p class="tx">“It can’t be done.”</p>
<p class="tx">“It really can’t be done. It’s a mission that can’t be completed.”</p>
<p class="tx">Qin Shi Huang clanged his sword on the rock beneath his feet. “This mission is crucial. The Lord may really be under threat. Besides, if we complete it, the organization will be greatly elevated in the Lord’s eyes! Gathered here are the elite of every sphere throughout the world, so how can we fail to think of something? Go back and think it over, and send your plans here to me through other channels. We’ve got to get on this!”</p>
<p class="tx">The torches burned out in succession and darkness swallowed everything. But the whispering went on.</p>
<p class="sb-std">*   *   *</p>
<p class="tni">The PDC Wallfacer Project Hearing did not convene for two weeks. After Tyler’s failure and the hibernation of the other two Wallfacers, the PDC’s main priority and attention had turned to mainstream defense.</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji and Kent awaited the start of the meeting in the videoconference room. The conference video connection had been made, and the big screen displayed the PDC auditorium, where the circular table familiar from the Security Council days was still completely empty. Luo Ji had arrived early as something of an apology for not attending in person.</p>
<p class="tx">While they waited, he chatted with Kent and asked him how he was managing. Kent said that he had lived in China for three years when he was younger, so he was quite accustomed to it and was doing well. At any rate, he didn’t have to spend all day underground like Luo Ji, and his rusty Chinese had recently regained its fluency.</p>
<p class="tx">“You sound like you have a cold,” Luo Ji said.</p>
<p class="tx">“I’ve just caught the bed flu,” he replied.</p>
<p class="tx">“Bird flu?” Luo Ji said in alarm.</p>
<p class="tx">“No. Bed flu. That’s what the media’s calling it. It started going around in a nearby city a week ago. It’s infectious, but symptoms are light. There’s no fever, just a runny nose, and some patients get a sore throat. There’s no need for medication, and it goes away on its own in three days or so after a little bed rest.”</p>
<p class="tx">“The flu is usually more serious than that.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Not this time. A lot of soldiers and staff here have already been infected. Haven’t you noticed that they replaced the caretaker? She caught the bed flu too, but was afraid of giving it to you. But as your liaison, I can’t be replaced for the time being.”</p>
<p class="tx">Onscreen the national delegates had begun to enter the auditorium. They sat down and started talking in low voices, as if they hadn’t noticed Luo Ji’s presence. The incumbent rotating chair of the PDC opened the meeting, saying, “Wallfacer Luo Ji, the Wallfacer Act was amended at the special session of the UN General Assembly that just adjourned. You’ve seen it?”</p>
<p class="tx">“Yes,” he answered.</p>
<p class="tx">“Then you must have noticed that the Act strengthens the examinations and restrictions on Wallfacer resource allocation. I hope that the plan you will submit to the hearing today will comply with the Act’s requirements.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Mr. Chair,” Luo Ji said, “the other three Wallfacers have allocated an enormous amount of resources to the execution of their own strategic plans. To limit my plan’s resources in this way is unfair.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Resource allocation privileges depend on the plan itself, and you must be aware that the other three Wallfacer plans are not in conflict with mainstream defense. In other words, the research and engineering they are conducting would have been carried out even without the Wallfacer Project. I hope that your strategic plan is also of this nature.”</p>
<p class="tx">“I’m sorry to say that my plan is not of this nature. It has absolutely nothing to do with mainstream defense.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Then I’m sorry, too. Under the new Act, the resources you can allocate to this plan are very limited.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Even under the old plan, I couldn’t allocate all that much. However, this isn’t a problem, Mr. Chair. My strategic plan consumes practically no resources at all.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Just like your previous plans?”</p>
<p class="tx">The chair’s remark prompted snickers from several participants.</p>
<p class="tx">“Even less than in the past. Like I said, it consumes practically no resources at all,” he said simply.</p>
<p class="tx">“Then let’s have a look,” the chair said, nodding.</p>
<p class="tx">“The specifics of the plan will be introduced by Dr. Albert Ringier, although I presume you all received the corresponding file. To sum up, using the radio wave magnification capabilities of the sun, a message will be sent into the cosmos containing three simple images, along with additional information to demonstrate that these images have been sent by an intelligence as opposed to occurring naturally. The images are included in the file.”</p>
<p class="tx">The sound of rustling paper filled the auditorium as the attendees located the three sheets. The images were also displayed on the screen. They were quite simple. Each consisted of black dots, seemingly scattered at random, but they all noticed that each image contained one conspicuously larger dot that was marked with an arrow.</p>
<p class="tx">“What is it?” asked the US representative, who, like the rest of the attendees, was inspecting the images carefully.</p>
<p class="tx">“Wallfacer Luo Ji, according to the basic principles of the Wallfacer Project, you do not need to answer that question,” the chair said.</p>
<p class="tx">“It’s a spell,” he said.</p>
<p class="tx">The rustling and murmuring in the auditorium stopped abruptly. Everyone looked up in the same direction, so that Luo Ji now knew the location of the screen displaying his feed.</p>
<p class="tx">“What?” asked the chair, with narrowed eyes.</p>
<p class="tx">“He said it’s a spell,” someone seated at the circular table said loudly.</p>
<p class="tx">“A spell against whom?”</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji answered, “Against the planets of star 187J3X1. Of course, it could also work directly against the star itself.”</p>
<p class="tx">“What effect will it have?”</p>
<p class="tx">“That’s unknown right now. But one thing is certain: The effect of the spell will be catastrophic.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Er, is there a chance these planets have life?”</p>
<p class="tx">“I consulted repeatedly with the astronomical community on that point. From present observational data, the answer is no,” Luo Ji said, narrowing his eyes like the chair had. He prayed silently, <span class="epub-i">May they be right.</span></p>
<p class="tx">“After the spell is sent out, how long will it take to work?”</p>
<p class="tx">“The star is around fifty light-years from the sun, so the spell will be complete in fifty years at the earliest. But we won’t be able to observe its effects for one hundred years. This is just the earliest estimate, however. The actual time it takes might stretch out much farther.”</p>
<p class="tx">After a moment of silence in the auditorium, the US representative was the first to move, tossing the three sheets and their printed black dots onto the table. “Excellent. We finally have a god.”</p>
<p class="tx">“A god hiding in a cellar,” added the UK representative, to peals of laughter.</p>
<p class="tx">“More like a sorcerer,” sniffed the representative of Japan, which had never been admitted to the Security Council, but had been accepted immediately once the PDC was established.</p>
<p class="tx">“Dr. Luo, you have succeeded in making your plan weird and baffling, at least,” said Garanin, the Russian representative who had held the rotating chair on several occasions during Luo Ji’s five years as a Wallfacer.</p>
<p class="tx">The chair banged the gavel, silencing the commotion in the auditorium. “Wallfacer Luo Ji, I have a question for you. Given that this is a spell, why don’t you direct it at the enemy’s world?”</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji said, “This is a proof of concept. Its actual implementation will wait for the Doomsday Battle.”</p>
<p class="tx">“Can’t Trisolaris be used as the test target?”</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji shook his head with finality. “Absolutely not. It’s too close. It’s close enough that the effects of the spell might reach us. That’s why I rejected any planetary star system within fifty light-years.”</p>
<p class="tx">“One final question: Over the next hundred or more years, what do you plan on doing?”</p>
<p class="tx">“You’ll be free of me. Hibernation. Wake me when the effects of the spell on 187J3X1 are detected.”</p>
<p class="sb-std">*   *   *</p>
<p class="tni">As he was preparing for hibernation, Luo Ji came down with the bed flu. His initial symptoms were no different from everyone else, just a runny nose and a slight throat inflammation, and neither he nor anyone else paid it any attention. But two days later his condition worsened and he began to run a fever. The doctor found this abnormal and took a blood sample back to the city for analysis.</p>
<p class="tx">Luo Ji spent the night in a fevered torpor, haunted endlessly by restless dreams in which the stars in the night sky swirled and danced like grains of sand on the skin of a drum. He was even aware of the gravitational interaction between these stars: It wasn’t three-body motion, but the 200-billion-body motion of all of the stars in the galaxy! Then the swirling stars clustered into an enormous vortex, and in that mad spiral the vortex transformed again into a giant serpent formed from the congealed silver of every star, which drilled into his brain with a roar.… </p>
<p class="tx">At around four in the morning, Zhang Xiang was awakened by his phone. It was a call from the Planetary Defense Council Security Department leadership who, in severe tones, demanded that he report immediately on Luo Ji’s condition, and ordered the base to be put under a state of emergency. A team of experts was on its way over.</p>
<p class="tx">As soon as he hung up the phone, it rang again, this time with a call from the doctor in the tenth basement, who reported that the patient’s condition had sharply deteriorated and he was now in a state of shock. Zhang Xiang descended the elevator at once, and the panicked doctor and nurse informed him that Luo Ji had begun spitting up blood in the middle of the night and then had gone unconscious. Zhang Xiang saw Luo Ji lying on the bed with a pale face, purple lips, and practically no signs of life in his body.</p>
<p class="tx">The team, consisting of experts from the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, doctors from the general hospital of the PLA, and an entire research team from the Academy of Military Medical Sciences soon arrived.</p>
<p class="tx">As they observed Luo Ji’s condition, one expert from the AMMS took Zhang Xiang and Kent outside and described the situation to them. “This flu came to our attention a while ago. We felt that its origin and characteristics were highly abnormal, and it’s clear now that it’s a genetic weapon, a genetic guided missile.”</p>
<p class="tx">“A guided missile?”</p>
<p class="tx">“It’s a genetically altered virus that is highly infectious, but only causes mild flu symptoms in most people. However, the virus has a recognition ability which allows it to identify the genetic characteristics of a particular individual. Once the target has been infected, it creates deadly toxins in his blood. We now know who the target is.”</p>
<p class="tx">Zhang Xiang and Kent glanced at each other, first in incredulity and then in despair. Zhang Xiang blanched and bowed his head. “I accept full responsibility.”</p>
<p class="tx">The researcher, a senior colonel, said, “Director Zhang, you can’t say that. There’s no defense against this. Although we had begun to suspect something odd about the virus, we never even considered this possibility. The concept of genetic weapons first appeared in the last century, but no one believed that anyone would actually produce one. And although this one’s imperfect, it truly is a frightening tool for assassination. All you need to do is spread the virus in the target’s general vicinity. Or, rather, you don’t even need to know where the target is: You could just spread it across the globe, and because the virus causes little to no illness in ordinary people, it will spread quickly and would probably strike its target in the end.”</p>
<p class="tx">“No, I accept full responsibility,” Zhang said, covering his eyes. “If Captain Shi was here, this wouldn’t have happened.” He dropped his hand and his eyes shone with tears. “The last thing he said to me before hibernation was to warn me of what you said about no defense. He said, ‘Xiao Zhang, in this job of ours we need to sleep with one eye open. There’s no certainty of success, and some things we can’t defend against.’”</p>
<p class="tx">“So what do we do next?” Kent asked.</p>
<p class="tx">“The virus has penetrated deep. The patient’s liver and cardiopulmonary functions have failed, and modern medicine is helpless. Hibernate him as soon as possible.”</p>
<p class="tx">After a long while, when Luo Ji recovered a little of the consciousness that had totally disappeared, he had sensations of cold, a cold that seemed to emanate from within his body and diffuse outward like light to freeze the entire world. He saw a snow-white patch in which there first was nothing but infinite white. Then a small black dot appeared its very center, and he could gradually make out a familiar figure, Zhuang Yan, holding their child. He walked with difficulty through a snowy wilderness so empty that it lost all dimension. She was wrapped in a red scarf, the same one she had worn seven years ago on the snowy night he first saw her. The child, red-faced from the cold, waved two small hands at him from her mother’s embrace, and shouted something that he couldn’t hear. He wanted to chase them through the snow, but the young mother and child vanished, as if dissolved into snow. Then he himself vanished, and the snowy white world shrank into a thin silver thread, which in the unbounded darkness was all that remained of his consciousness. It was the thread of time, a thin, motionless strand that extended infinitely in both directions. His soul, strung on this thread, was gently sliding off at a constant speed into the unknowable future.</p>
<p class="tx">Two days later, a stream of high-power radio waves was sent off from Earth toward the sun, penetrating the convection zone and reaching the energy mirror in the radiation zone, where its reflection, magnified hundreds of millions of times, carried Wallfacer Luo Ji’s spell into the cosmos at the speed of light.</p>
</body>
</html>
